David Schaich (he): Okay, we can get going. We'll see if
David Schaich (he): more folks come in, either in the room or
David Schaich (he): remotely.
David Schaich (he): We are
David Schaich (he): in the last month of the module.
David Schaich (he): The 6-digit code for this afternoon
David Schaich (he): is 2, 3, 4, 9, 7, 0
David Schaich (he): It may well be, in addition to the nice weather at the moment, that folks are working hard to
David Schaich (he): wrap up the final homework assignment, due
David Schaich (he): tomorrow. Are there any
David Schaich (he): questions about that assignment, or what we did
David Schaich (he): in previous weeks before we get underway today?
David Schaich (he): Not seeing it either
David Schaich (he): go along with hopefully answering today the question that's up here, how we
David Schaich (he): distinguish the phase transitions that we talked about last week.
David Schaich (he): It's just different behaviors that we're seeing in non interacting system systems. We
David Schaich (he): motivated the introduction of interacting the theories by saying that they are
David Schaich (he): required to describe this way more complicated behavior. Which is it clear that there is something going on with the true phase transition that distinguishes this from
David Schaich (he): the different behavior we can see
David Schaich (he): just for not a tracking system we've considered previously and more work with on your own in that homework assignment. So
David Schaich (he): to build up to this question. Let's just recall
David Schaich (he): easy model to call because it was discovered by it, is. Define in terms of
David Schaich (he): the same
David Schaich (he): now specifically located. how long
David Schaich (he): it will take to the you with lattice. For simplicity.
David Schaich (he): This easy model is defined by the energy for the microstates corresponding to you. Certain configuration of this.
David Schaich (he): you know
David Schaich (he): 2 terms contributing to the energy first to be
David Schaich (he): multiplication, of 2 spins on nearest neighboring sites. and then
David Schaich (he): the usual coupling of those spins to the external magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): So this matter, some we're used to is let me go over the and the sites in this lattice. and then this first sum is between nearest neighbor pairs which we can go into
David Schaich (he): these times and links between the insights in
David Schaich (he): the dimensions
David Schaich (he): and it you've seen it, even though
David Schaich (he): this model looks simple to
David Schaich (he): right now in terms of the latest structure of the order sheet. There is no known way to solve it analytically. You know. any more than on that
David Schaich (he): 2 dimensions. It's my exception in the case of the
David Schaich (he): I'll get to, maybe actually in court, if not
the lecture.
David Schaich (he): So the absence of an external solution. We
David Schaich (he): to do the usual approach, which is also
David Schaich (he): popping up in that over question. One is
David Schaich (he): looking at the
David Schaich (he): simplified
David Schaich (he): behavior that
David Schaich (he): we can deduce in the limits of high temperature with the system. Yeah.
David Schaich (he): with some further simplicity for looking at these limits. Yes. go ahead. And
David Schaich (he): for all that.
David Schaich (he): each to 0. The energy is then
David Schaich (he): just the interaction
David Schaich (he): and the
David Schaich (he): I just call there
David Schaich (he): function depends
David Schaich (he): only on the inverse temperature, Bayl and the number. This is the cell
David Schaich (he): for all configurations
David Schaich (he): out, the end spins of
David Schaich (he): which is just data.
David Schaich (he): The repairs.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): The high temperature limits the inverse temperature is going to 0,
David Schaich (he): which gives us a fairly simple form. Will the partition function? You have the similar configurations.
David Schaich (he): the exponential factor, a bigger going to 0 times.
David Schaich (he): the sum of terms that are either plus or minus one, depending on whether these near state or spins are aligned in the same direction or opposite directions.
David Schaich (he): 0 times one is 0, so we are just getting a factor of one. It sounds number of state configurations. We can have
David Schaich (he): 2 values up or down, plus or minus one.
David Schaich (he): The efficient function as a whole in this type of visual limit just boils down to a factor of 2 to the end.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): that could be happening here, as we are
David Schaich (he): giving something that looks like the micro.
David Schaich (he): all of the microstates. Yeah.
David Schaich (he): Equal probabilities just one over 2 to the end, so that the total probability of being in any configuration still add up to one
David Schaich (he): and effectively, what's going on is that Yeah, of course not. The energy you couldn't see those microstates is kind of negligible
David Schaich (he): in the position function compared to
David Schaich (he): you. Temperature?
David Schaich (he): No.
David Schaich (he): even that.
David Schaich (he): The internal energy is
David Schaich (he): you coming in
to be negligible
David Schaich (he): and not
David Schaich (he): giving us anything interesting to pick apart in this limit. You, too. makes sense to look at other obserable quantities to characterize the system. This is.
David Schaich (he): let me introduce one that you have already seen all the whole work
David Schaich (he): to the
David Schaich (he): that organization
David Schaich (he): extent to which the spins
David Schaich (he): are all
David Schaich (he): my email or opposed to each other. So
David Schaich (he): as an equation. you just define this organization as the ratio of the number of spins with value, plus one minus the number of
minus one
David Schaich (he): divided by the total number of spins, the
David Schaich (he): some of the plus and minus ones.
David Schaich (he): It is hopefully here that.
David Schaich (he): bound on this mechanization are. It could be a minus one, and plus one
David Schaich (he): minus one of the limit where
David Schaich (he): every spins has a value of minus one, it's going to be the absence of the magnetic field, or to align with or against. So in my this is the capital, and
David Schaich (he): up and down the
David Schaich (he): you know, minus one factor and plus one. Similarly, when all the spins
David Schaich (he): pointing out.
David Schaich (he): and in fact, with H equals 0.
David Schaich (he): There's not really a
David Schaich (he): way to distinguish between us, and by this one there's no external magnetic field, or
David Schaich (he): it's the point
David Schaich (he): that
David Schaich (he): the symmetry actually can take that leaves the whole system unchanged
David Schaich (he): to actually be okay.
David Schaich (he): all of the
David Schaich (he): to you
David Schaich (he): go to minus plus one.
David Schaich (he): and with this symmetry
David Schaich (he): it makes more sense to
David Schaich (he): consider the absolute value of this manitization.
It is a
David Schaich (he): no meaning effectively to the overall negative sign that you can
David Schaich (he): choose freely by flipping all the spins.
David Schaich (he): the ranges between 0 and one one. When all the spins are aligned, either plus or minus one and 0, and they are equal numbers of
David Schaich (he): so getting back to the high temperature limit. you want to
David Schaich (he): consider the expectation down there. the absolute value of this organization. the sum over all of the microstates.
David Schaich (he): Because of that probability.
David Schaich (he): You see that
David Schaich (he): for high temperatures we have
David Schaich (he): all my trustees equally probably
David Schaich (he): so. All that is going to determine the expectation value
David Schaich (he): is the number of microstates that we have for any given value of that organization. We just need to count.
David Schaich (he): The number of equally probable microstates depends on the
magnetization is determined by
David Schaich (he): either the number of upper.
David Schaich (he): We know that any given value of the
David Schaich (he): we realized
David Schaich (he): alright, and put in. Choose, and plus i'll be you.
David Schaich (he): A number of microstates is equal to. and she's a long as usual. competition
David Schaich (he): here
David Schaich (he): seen before.
David Schaich (he): We have looked at
David Schaich (he): just this counting problem in some detail back in my earliest
David Schaich (he): tutorials have to be a computer Lab.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): Computed the number of microstates, with various distributions of energy between 2 systems that had to add up to
David Schaich (he): a fixed micro canonical value. Of that What we found
David Schaich (he): under a large number of degrees of freedom.
David Schaich (he): Bye. I don't know. completely dominated
David Schaich (he): a sharp peak in the number of
microstates.
David Schaich (he): Well.
David Schaich (he): the degrees of Freedom world equally yeah.
David Schaich (he): divided between the 2 sides in this case that corresponds to an equal number of
David Schaich (he): plus and minus spins.
David Schaich (he): which is just the situation where
David Schaich (he): we have a vanishing
David Schaich (he): Yeah. so called thermodynamic minutes. There
David Schaich (he): number of goes to infinity.
David Schaich (he): expectation, value as a whole. no approach
David Schaich (he): that
David Schaich (he): 0 result.
David Schaich (he): There are so many microstates with an equal number upward in the
my skins.
David Schaich (he): that even with the absolute value we don't pick up a
David Schaich (he): even with the
David Schaich (he): you have it
David Schaich (he): random sampling of equally probable microstates. I wish
David Schaich (he): a dominant number will have upward and downloading spins all scattered throughout the system.
David Schaich (he): There are
David Schaich (he): state configurations realizing that sort of physics
David Schaich (he): which gives rise to the
David Schaich (he): standard.
David Schaich (he): This high temperature situation is a disorder phase. It's a collection of offered and downloading spins
David Schaich (he): all
David Schaich (he): you can chose in the No pattern or
David Schaich (he): throughout the labs.
David Schaich (he): So hopefully that picture of this one in phase is
David Schaich (he): reasonably fear. It might become clear as we
David Schaich (he): part of the low temperature.
David Schaich (he): good and
David Schaich (he): and cross the behavior of the organization
David Schaich (he): there. Of course, as always.
David Schaich (he): we got it. Things i'm here.
David Schaich (he): anyway.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): going on.
David Schaich (he): it's a real temperature. Where is going to infinity?
David Schaich (he): Again, the situation is.
David Schaich (he): it's been system we've already dealt with
David Schaich (he): in the sense that the
David Schaich (he): ground states the microstates with
David Schaich (he): of the energy
David Schaich (he): It comes exponentially
David Schaich (he): your probable, then.
David Schaich (he): and you have the excitement states with higher energy levels.
David Schaich (he): energies. You know.
David Schaich (he): most of the internal energy of the microstate. As we a goes to infinity, we can exponential suppression
David Schaich (he): as the interval energy increases.
David Schaich (he): And this the external magnetic field turned off. Yeah.
David Schaich (he): microstate soil
David Schaich (he): well, not rare. All of the students.
David Schaich (he): and the value plus one which we could think of as pointing out number of.
David Schaich (he): and the the first case in which all the spins
David Schaich (he): one.
David Schaich (he): And you should. Those cases you have to takes its maximum value. Oh, well.
David Schaich (he): and you can easily compute
David Schaich (he): the ground, State energy.
David Schaich (he): It's the sum over
David Schaich (he): links to the latest of the value of the spins. All the sites at each end of those links.
David Schaich (he): In both of these cases these spins have the same value. I plus one. Yeah. with minus one
David Schaich (he): we are multiply together.
David Schaich (he): and the plus and minus one square to get. So we just count the number of terms in the cell.
David Schaich (he): It is the total number.
David Schaich (he): negative, one energy, contribution.
David Schaich (he): From every one of these
the
David Schaich (he): the dimensions.
David Schaich (he): It would be
David Schaich (he): first excited energy level.
David Schaich (he): We want to figure out the value of the energy that is
David Schaich (he): as low as possible without being all the way to this. To you all this change we can make to the system. To
David Schaich (he): obtain, that is, to flip a single link
David Schaich (he): with a single spin
David Schaich (he): understand affects all of these
David Schaich (he): it is attached to. I will say
David Schaich (he): we're working in more than one dimension. The one dimensional cases. a special case how we can. I don't have to
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): microstates that
David Schaich (he): correspond to this first excited energy level. We'll have.
David Schaich (he): I got it?
David Schaich (he): What? The opposite? In each case there are. and possible spins that we could flip to the opposite all the Us.
David Schaich (he): Together. the count
David Schaich (he): 2 and generate microstates
David Schaich (he): that realize this energy level
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): all of them. You'll have the value of an organization that
David Schaich (he): is going back to the definition. The difference in the awesome time with spins
David Schaich (he): so.
David Schaich (he): and minus one minus one is n minus 2,
and there are still.
David Schaich (he): So we have. That is close to the maximum that we get in the ground state
David Schaich (he): with just a a slight reduction from that
David Schaich (he): maximum depending on the
David Schaich (he): little number of space.
David Schaich (he): The question is, what is the overall mechanization going to look like on the account for
David Schaich (he): these lowlying energy levels of the course of the probabilities. If you get the our ability to the energy levels, we you to consider the
David Schaich (he): internal energy
so
David Schaich (he): probabilities.
David Schaich (he): It depends
David Schaich (he): on the Internal Energy Board.
David Schaich (he): This first excited state.
David Schaich (he): which we can essentially right down the how, how things works. what the ground state
David Schaich (he): for all of the links. We are. The 2 values of the spins
David Schaich (he): are the same. You pick up a minus one contribution to the energy.
David Schaich (he): and then we will have
David Schaich (he): too many links attached to this.
David Schaich (he): which we all
David Schaich (he): on the 2 ends of those lays.
David Schaich (he): to be. thanks to the possible contribution to the energy.
David Schaich (he): all the people here. students.
David Schaich (he): or do you have that same minus one factor that we had before?
David Schaich (he): So we arranging? This is
David Schaich (he): minus D. And
David Schaich (he): I was 4 deal.
David Schaich (he): and. as expected. Not quite as negative. Is that minimum energy. We're on stage.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): Reflection of your possible contribution
David Schaich (he): in those 2 video links.
David Schaich (he): minus one.
David Schaich (he): the other
David Schaich (he): that are unaffected, going from the ground State to the first excited state.
David Schaich (he): And did you get that back on the screen?
David Schaich (he): So there are 2 of picks I'm. Again to determine how the ground State and the first excited state are
David Schaich (he): contributing to the overall expectation
David Schaich (he): magnetization.
David Schaich (he): Probably the first excited states we have
David Schaich (he): for each of the microstates with this energy
David Schaich (he): from the
David Schaich (he): but at the same time
David Schaich (he): we have the however
David Schaich (he): degeneracy so.
David Schaich (he): and that is you ever at microstates. Yeah. at first excited stage compared to the
David Schaich (he): you generate ground States with the minimum energy she was in.
David Schaich (he): They're all they're infinitely more
David Schaich (he): excited States.
David Schaich (he): each of them, with their little probability. And the question is. which of those 2?
David Schaich (he): The facts will win out in your role, Expectation value
David Schaich (he): 2? 2. Answer that question. Okay. The
David Schaich (he): the system in
David Schaich (he): it's crowd states any of the general microstates that are
David Schaich (he): part of that ground states compared to having the system in the first
David Schaich (he): out of you. You ever see 2 for the ground state to end
David Schaich (he): for the first excited state and the yes, we factor e to the minus beta Times energy
I have
David Schaich (he): just computed to be
David Schaich (he): my this. the
the ground states.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): these exponential factors. the to the end. She only has to
yeah
David Schaich (he): overall factors of the partition functions in. That's what we define normalized probabilities. And then
David Schaich (he): a factor of one over and over
David Schaich (he): to the numerator
David Schaich (he): reversing it. So in temperature going to 0,
David Schaich (he): your to infinity. You will
David Schaich (he): approach. hey?
David Schaich (he): Very large relative probability for the ground state so effectively. domination only by the kernel state, despite the larger number of microstates contributing
David Schaich (he): to the first excited States.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): the corresponding value of the organization will therefore approach its ground state value with one. All of the skills.
David Schaich (he): Hello! Which this is we.
David Schaich (he): We'll call this an order phase
David Schaich (he): that is realized. Yes. low temperatures.
David Schaich (he): And this might seem
David Schaich (he): obvious, because it is
David Schaich (he): similar to what we saw earlier in the case. So I will point out that this argument
David Schaich (he): it was
David Schaich (he): not.
David Schaich (he): If we don't.
David Schaich (he): we do not actually ground state winning out and derivation on that, or something that
David Schaich (he): may wait for one of those supplemental andcasts that make up to you couple of hours of lecture that we're cancelled yesterday and next Monday for the night holidays.
David Schaich (he): So let me pause here and check to make sure that these 2
David Schaich (he): phases that I have defined at the high, low temperature limits are
David Schaich (he): there? Is everyone there's no questions about.
David Schaich (he): How are you
David Schaich (he): deduce this behavior, or why we're looking at in the first place.
David Schaich (he): and this these are the ingredients that we need to answer the question that it's probably just on the projector at the of the lecture today.
David Schaich (he): What distinguishes these things just from the different behavior
that we were seeing already for knowledge reacting spin systems
David Schaich (he): based on
David Schaich (he): this behavior that we've seen, we can
David Schaich (he): you find
David Schaich (he): if you general qualities
David Schaich (he): motivated by the specific example.
David Schaich (he): i'll be using model
David Schaich (he): to the personally general concepts is that parameter
David Schaich (he): something I may just call okay for shorts. We are in the using model of the magnetization that we've been considering is
David Schaich (he): the specific realization of
David Schaich (he): it was a parameter. What this
David Schaich (he): distinguish
David Schaich (he): a disorder phase where the parameter goes to 0,
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): in the
these. the high temperature
David Schaich (he): that gets distinguished from the you.
David Schaich (he): What are things with the
David Schaich (he): We are here as a non 0 expectation value
David Schaich (he): what it using model as an organization approaching one. It's absolutely
the real temperature regime.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): the general statement about interacting statistical systems.
David Schaich (he): Whether the expectation value for this order parameter
David Schaich (he): 0, we're 9 0
David Schaich (he): specifically in Yes.
David Schaich (he): it's an infinite number of degrees of freedom
David Schaich (he): is what fully distinguishes
David Schaich (he): different phases of the theory.
David Schaich (he): We'll be home just the different behavior that we saw
David Schaich (he): in the case of knowledge.
David Schaich (he): and there's even more that can be said on the basis of
David Schaich (he): these order parameters
David Schaich (he): that address the question of precisely how the order of parameter changes from being 0 in
David Schaich (he): the order of the disorder phase to being non-zero in the order phase.
David Schaich (he): So this actually provides us the mathematical definition. obviously a transition which is that if the order parameter or any of its derivatives
David Schaich (he): all right.
David Schaich (he): discontinuous. including.
David Schaich (he): Then
David Schaich (he): there is a true phase transition
David Schaich (he): separating those 2 phases.
the control parameters.
David Schaich (he): No, it has
David Schaich (he): critical point.
David Schaich (he): and it was a clarify.
David Schaich (he): Why this matters in the case, that the there are no discontinuities in the order parameter, or
David Schaich (he): any of its derivatives.
David Schaich (he): instead of having a phase. Transition is the gradual shift between them. There's 2 different types of behavior. Let me see you in non interacting systems.
David Schaich (he): and this is
David Schaich (he): is characterized by being continuous and differentiable in contrast to
behavior of
David Schaich (he): the true transition.
David Schaich (he): So this is essentially the answer to that. I was supposed to start up today. What distinguishes the phase transition from just a system that has different behavior in different regimes
David Schaich (he): of its order. Parameter is the behavior I would we're in there
David Schaich (he): in the particular is the presence of a discontinuity, or the versions in that word parameter, or any of its derivatives.
David Schaich (he): What do you using Mobile, just mentioned. related to
David Schaich (he): 4 points that should have been the
David Schaich (he): with H. Equals 0 and the easy model
David Schaich (he): critical points that
David Schaich (he): we will be interested in. Assuming that you will see.
David Schaich (he): Discontinuity is in the
David Schaich (he): No. Just be defined by the one control she is the I'm. Sure. Some will say that
David Schaich (he): if there is a transition, it occurs and critical
David Schaich (he): the temperature away from
David Schaich (he): that. The order parameter wants to exhibit this discount. New it
David Schaich (he): bring in.
David Schaich (he): oh. or parameters.
David Schaich (he): Let me see that
David Schaich (he): only to be an order parameter equality
it should be.
David Schaich (he): We'll lead into
David Schaich (he): some derivative of the free energy.
David Schaich (he): It's a derivative of the
David Schaich (he): function which is just
the partition function itself.
David Schaich (he): I think we'll. I have plenty of time to
David Schaich (he): see how the magnetization is related to the free energy for the using model.
David Schaich (he): One last piece of terminology, before
David Schaich (he): which is a
David Schaich (he): distinction that is wrong.
David Schaich (he): We will encounter it between different types of phase transitions depending on with it or not. The is discontinuous, or these discontinuities only arise
David Schaich (he): in It's derivatives in the case when
David Schaich (he): you know, working with a just continuous.
David Schaich (he): or a parameter itself. we have
David Schaich (he): it's called a first order. This transition.
David Schaich (he): where.
David Schaich (he): in case of a continuous or the parameter with
David Schaich (he): discontinuous.
David Schaich (he): the version derivative
David Schaich (he): is in general calling
David Schaich (he): the second order. This transition. both of which play
David Schaich (he): many different aspect. So
David Schaich (he): physics, for example, the generation of gravitational waves in the early universe can result only from a first-order transition and walk in the second order one.
David Schaich (he): many similar, less exotic examples.
David Schaich (he): So just to give the picture, that is. we're distinguishing between them these 2, you order parameter against it's control parameters and specialized the case where we just have
David Schaich (he): at the time that your region, we expect that to be in
David Schaich (he): the ordered phase is the knowledge of the value of that word of parameter or something like that in the high temperature phase
David Schaich (he): you accept the
David Schaich (he): limit of
David Schaich (he): and going to infinity.
David Schaich (he): there is exactly 0.
David Schaich (he): And if there is yeah.
David Schaich (he): pretty cool temperature. this is the
David Schaich (he): first order case.
David Schaich (he): Interesting case for second order transitions is where that
David Schaich (he): not 0 value continuously
David Schaich (he): 0 expectation value. When we highlight your phase There he is
David Schaich (he): some sort of a that you take the derivative we will introduce. I think, in a versions or in this company away. So yeah.
David Schaich (he): the rough derivative of
David Schaich (he): just the I know one that's scheduled here
David Schaich (he): when no.
David Schaich (he): the order of parameter itself is 0, and the T. It's derivative is also 0
David Schaich (he): and the low temperature phase. I started it.
David Schaich (he): Growing things with the order prem or being roughly constant with T, and then it goes down to smaller values. So it's derivative
David Schaich (he): less than 0 like so. And
David Schaich (he): And here is really how
David Schaich (he): I just want to do what you
David Schaich (he): at the value of Tc. I'll spend the order parameter itself
David Schaich (he): There it is. You better fit with the projector.
David Schaich (he): Historically, this first and second order. Terminology
David Schaich (he): was related to
David Schaich (he): whether the
David Schaich (he): first or second derivative of the free energy these days. It's more common to say that
David Schaich (he): any system with an order parameter that is continuous.
David Schaich (he): I had a discontinuity in any subsequent, derivative no matter how many you have to take the second third. There are things 3 mail.
David Schaich (he): all of those will just be referred to as second order, which is continuous. These transitions.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): let's wrap up today by
David Schaich (he): nothing back to that what a parameter should be
David Schaich (he): related to some derivative of the 3 energy.
David Schaich (he): So, looking at the using model as I see this interactive statistical system. I want to relate the organization to
David Schaich (he): some derivative of the help of it's free energy. So minus T. Let me see what is the partition function in order to do so.
David Schaich (he): It's probably not surprising that Will I to the store.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): gives this mechanization a preference to a line
David Schaich (he): with magnetic field rather than against it.
David Schaich (he): Energy of Microsoft. Yeah. Goes back to you.
David Schaich (he): The full expression, the interact internal.
David Schaich (he): the contribution from a couple of the skins
David Schaich (he): to the external magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): because the organization
David Schaich (he): is just counting the
David Schaich (he): number of upward meeting spins with
David Schaich (he): dot us n plus one minus the number of down the point experience
minus one.
David Schaich (he): It should be
David Schaich (he): easy to convince ourselves that the mechanization itself
David Schaich (he): it's just related to the sum over Sp. pretty good and plus
David Schaich (he): positive contributions with this one, and then minus negative contributions with this
David Schaich (he): minus one. So the energy right
David Schaich (he): as the times number of spins as an organization just
David Schaich (he): in times.
David Schaich (he): So the corresponding
David Schaich (he): precision function that we're interested in taking a derivative. Oh.
David Schaich (he): we all. as usual, some
David Schaich (he): State configurations. the exponential connector
David Schaich (he): I want to.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): these 2 terms.
David Schaich (he): and that
David Schaich (he): given that we're already seeing the magnetization
David Schaich (he): I know they term. That depends on our additional control. People make sense to consider some
David Schaich (he): with respect to that. Yeah. see what we do.
David Schaich (he): So the energy is
David Schaich (he): what over there is that the H.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): that derivative just goes straight through some of the configurations.
David Schaich (he): you know from the exponential factor in the each you bet on. and then and then we
David Schaich (he): exponential factor. so
David Schaich (he): cancel out the
David Schaich (he): and recognize that what was that? I's the exponential of minus data times, the energy within the some of the configurations
David Schaich (he): it's just giving us the
David Schaich (he): expectation value of the organization
David Schaich (he): for each of those spin configurations. So overall I just get
David Schaich (he): also factors of West Canada Expectation Bill.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): there's an advertisement. The relation between organization itself and the derivative of the free energy or
David Schaich (he): derivative of
David Schaich (he): where I just put things in the floor that will be useful
David Schaich (he): calculations for next week or a week after
David Schaich (he): right negative temperature as whatever data.
David Schaich (he): you can't see out the negative signs that come along with it in the free energy compared to the one of them.
David Schaich (he): So this is
David Schaich (he): for the confirmation that
David Schaich (he): mechanization is
David Schaich (he): satisfy all the conditions that it needs to be. A. We'll define order parameter.
David Schaich (he): whose behavior and the behavior of its derivatives and indicate
David Schaich (he): 2.2 software today and quickly. Not forget everything before we come back to this
David Schaich (he): next week. It's not looking at other ways of
David Schaich (he): analyzing the easy model without trying to so exactly so. We've see the day as the answer of this question, what distinguishes the true phase transition? I'll just change the behavior
David Schaich (he): as a as a control or an area varies.
David Schaich (he): The answer is the existence in this order parameter.
David Schaich (he): and this behavior you get here. This derivatives with respect to those control.
David Schaich (he): See a concrete example of
David Schaich (he): second order transitions in that
David Schaich (he): our upcoming work on using model.
David Schaich (he): Are there any questions before what you do this afternoon?
David Schaich (he): Shut down the recording. and and the remainder of this week is just another. How we're in the tutorial on Thursday morning. No finished talking about the Dubai theory of
David Schaich (he): basic level, and then
David Schaich (he): and a bit
David Schaich (he): more interesting things that could happen with lattices
David Schaich (he): and spin systems on them rather than just having this
David Schaich (he): simple cubic setup in the dimensions you are. See, then.